Todd Smith
6/10/13
WPF
Problem Solving

A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed:
A man finds himself on a riverbank with a cat, a parrot and a bag of seed. He needs to transport all three to the other side of the river in his boat. However, the boat has room for only the man himself and one other item: either the cat, parrot or seed). In his absence, the cat could eat the parrot, and the parrot would eat the seed. Show how he can get all the passengers to the other side, without leaving the wrong ones alone together.


1) Define the problem.
    a) In this problem we start with three objects all in Category A. We would like to recategorize each object to category B, wihout ever having certain pairs of objects in the same category. With objects C, P, and S, we are not allowed to have the pairs CP or PS both in the same category at the same time.
    b) For insight, I ignore most of the words and think in terms of symbols, sets and relationships.
    c) The goal is to recatgorize each object while adhereing to the constraints mentioned in part a).

2) Break the problem apart
    a) The constraints are that we can't have the pairs CP or PS in the same category at the same time.
    b) The sub goals could be to recategorize each individual object within the aforementioned constraints.

3) Identify potential solutions
    a) We can let category A be 'on the first shore without the man' and category B be 'on the second shore without the man'. 

i) To recategorize object C, we could put C and S into category A and P into category B. Then we remove the category from C, and add it to category B while simultaneously removing the category from object P. 

ii) To recategorize object P, we can just put it into category B and have objects C and S in category A.

iii) To recategorize object S, we can start with C and S in cat A and P in cat B. Then remove the cat from S, and give S cat B while simultaneously removing cat B from P.

4) Evaluate each potential solution
    a) Each solution meets its sub-goal and their combination wll meet the overall goal.
    b) No sub-solution will work for all cases.

5) Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it.
    a) My solution is to start with S and C in cat A and P in cat B. Then remove C from cat A, and give it cat B while simultaneously removing P from cat B. Then give P cat A while simultaneously removing S from cat A. Give S cat B. Then remove P from cat A and remove all categories from all objects.
    In other words, take the parrot to the other shore, come back and get the cat, take it to the other shore and get the parrot. Tka ethe parrot back and leave it at the first shore while getting the seed. Take the seed to the second shore. Come back to get the parrot. 
    The key to finding the solution was to realize that the parrot was the main problem. He couldn't be left alone with any other thing. While always focusing on the parrot, I was able to find a combination of sub-solutions that combined to meet the overall goal.
    b) To test my solution, I tore a note-card into three peices and marked them P, S, and C. 
    Here's a video:  http://youtu.be/lQop6zyXqCA
